




Projects

How to create projects.
Linking projects with the billing accounts.
How to list and describe the existing configurations.
How to create and manage projects via CLI.
Billing Accounts

Required roes to create and manage the billing accounts. 
Understanding the relation between Billing accounts & Projects & Organizations.
Setting up billing exports to estimate daily/monthly charges.

IAM

How to list and describe the roles using CLI.
How to filter the roles and members using GCP console.

Compute Engine

The understanding of market place uses cases.
Auto-scaling types When to use External IP address.
Importance of metadata and labels.
High availability.
Understanding Managed and Unmanaged instance groups.

VPC – Networking

How to configure firewalls and use cases.
Shared VPC.
VPC peering vs VPN vs Interconnect.
Types of load balancers and use cases.


Kubernetes Engine

The deployment process of docker file.
How to create a docker file and understanding of container registry.
Autoscaling in Kubernetes.
Deploying a container application to Google Kubernetes Engine using pods.
Configuring Google Kubernetes Engine application monitoring and logging.


App Engine

How to deploy applications on App Engine using CLI.
Use cases on App Engine Versions functionality.
How to split the traffic between multiple versions in the App Engine. 

Cloud Storage (Object-based)

storage classes.
Multi-regional vs Regional vs Nearline vs Coldline.
Changing or conversion of storage classes. 
Automatic deletion of objects and Objects transfer between the different storage classes using lifecycle policies.
Planning and configuring data storage options (Cloud SQL, BigQuery, Cloud Spanner, Cloud Bigtable).


Databases

Relational databases: SQL vs Spanner.
When to use BigQuery and Cloud Bigtable.
Initializing data systems with products (e.g., Cloud SQL, Cloud Datastore, BigQuery, Cloud Spanner, Cloud Pub/Sub, Cloud Bigtable, Cloud Dataproc, Cloud Dataflow, Cloud Storage)

Bigdata Tools

Difference between Dataproc vs Dataflow.
Questions based on Pub/Sub use cases and integration with other services
Data Analytics tools use cases.


Stackdriver

Importance of Stackdriver in the Google cloud and how it works
Creating and configuring the workspaces
Creating Stackdriver alerts based on resource metrics
How to add projects form different GCP accounts to single Stackdriver account via GCP console
